can you do the splits that's the number
one question anybody gets about
flexibility but i think a better
question is if you can scratch that one
spot on your back you know the spot
flexibility is more than just a party
trick yes it feels
yes it feels great to be the center of
attention but there are actually many
useful reasons to train flexibility
oh it broke prom with my now live here
is six ways you can test your
flexibility to see how advanced you are
today's video is sponsored by
bold of you to assume that i make money
from this if you do want to support i
have merch there's stay flexi hoodies
t-shirts and cropped t-shirts as well
stay flexy let's get into number one the
deep squat this is the ability to fully
bend the knees hamstrings covering the
calf with the heels firmly planted on
the floor by the way i'm gonna make full
length videos on every single one of
these things this skill involves ankle
mobility so that your knee can go past
your toe with your heel still firmly
planted on the ground now genetics do
play a role in how far your knee can go
forward but there are slight ways to
improve it like for instance collapsing
the arch down a little bit and allows
the knee to go further forward this
skill also requires you to be able to
fully bend your knees pain-free just
like so maybe not on the hardwood floor
i'm a little insane but the ability to
maximally bend your knees all the way is
severely underrated and last but not
least it also requires hip mobility but
not this kind of hip mobility it
requires this kind of hip mobility to
get your body as close to your legs as
possible preferably with a flat back but
if you start with a rounded back that's
a great place to start you'll just build
up your hip mobility and get better at
it as you go a quick little tip if
you're pregnant or you have a larger
belly you can rely on more hip mobility
by widening your legs giving yourself
plenty of room up front it just means
you have to do
extra work for hip mobility but look the
knees do not have to go past the toes
so you have to work on less ankle
mobility in my opinion the deep squat is
the most useful skill and you will be
using it the most in your everyday life
like when you leave your coffee on the
kitchen floor and number two the toe
touch everybody at one point or another
in their life has been told to touch
their toes with their knees straight
for some reason this is like the
hallmark of flexibility but did you know
it involves a lot more than just your
hamstrings if you keep your back
perfectly flat and try and touch your
toes you'll see how quickly you get
stopped now the more flexible you get
the further down you can go
but still very very difficult so this
skill obviously requires some spinal
flexion that's the rounding forward of
the spine just like so but it also needs
your glutes to lengthen out as well
because your butt muscle literally wraps
all the way over so it needs to lengthen
out so that you can reach further
forward once you've achieved the toe
touch you can start challenging yourself
even more by trying to go
elbow to toe why is that so much harder
every single time i do it and the
benefits of learning this skill is that
you can again just like the deep squat
pick up where did my coffee go you can
pick up your coffee off of the kitchen
floor without
bending your knees i guess
[Music]
but i guess it also helps if you want to
like i don't know kick people in the
face can you tell i don't fight anyway
number three shoulder dislocations
you're not actually dislocating your
shoulders even though it may appear that
way all you need to do is grab a belt a
broom
a stay flexi hoodie from
bonfire.comflexi
or even just a blanket really i don't
think i really need to mention this but
it really helps with getting that one
itchy spot on your back so
yeah this one's really valuable as you
go throughout that range you stretch
your lats you also stretch out your
chest your biceps and you stretch all
four of your rotator cuff muscles so if
you do it safely it's super healthy for
your shoulders oh and bodybuilders pay
attention having that kind of shoulder
mobility really helps
with lat spreads
all you have to do is you start wide
just like so and then you work your way
a little bit closer in
and the closer you get the more
impressive the skill actually is number
four the backbend i'm absolutely
horrendous at the back bend i'm getting
better and better at it bridging-wise
but i injured my back a while back back
a while back
so i have some restrictions that i have
to work through with this one but i'll
get there the back bend requires a great
deal of abdominal flexibility most
people think you're just bending your
back and you're crunching down on your
spine but
that's not healthy for you the correct
way to perform any type of extension or
back movement is to really
increase the length between your ribs
and your pelvis by stretching those abs
and that's how you get that maximal bend
even if you have restrictions like me
you can focus on stretching those abs
always avoiding pain please this skill
is super useful for people who are in
martial arts because you want to be able
to have strength in all ranges of motion
even if you're upside down or just
creeping people out number five the
front split the reason why this is so
low on the list is because it's less
practical for life but it teaches you
how to combine different types of
flexibility for instance it's your hip
flexors and your hamstrings stretching
simultaneously in opposite directions
the reason why the hip flexor doesn't
have its own section is because if
you're doing back bends correctly your
hip flexors are already going to be
stretching as you can see just like that
with any of these skills really you can
take it even further and go into over
splits or
folding in half backwards if you're
doing the backbend route but i prefer
more of a functional way of thinking
about it functional functional for what
i'm glad you asked your front splits
don't have to be passive
you can also do active holds like this
where you're actually flexing the
muscles
and holding your body off of the ground
be prepared you will be extraordinarily
sore after doing those doing active
holds instead of just passive holds will
really let you own your flexibility so
for instance if somebody pushed you over
and you fell into a split you're
probably not going to injure yourself
yourself because you have the strength
to hold yourself up and you're not going
to go
and last but not least
the middle split i know i said the toe
touch was the hallmark of flexibility
but the middle split is probably the
most iconic stretch of all time the
middle split combines a lot of muscles
to make just one little skill happen
it's your adductors your hamstrings and
your hip flexors because they're all
right there in your inner thigh area and
they all work together to make it happen
and active holds in the middle splits
are just as valuable as active holds in
this
front splits that's what they're called
if each one of these six skills was a
point how many points would you have
stay flexy